---
layout: post
title:  "Wordpress vs Jekyll"
date:   2020-07-24 23:40:15 +0600
categories: website
---

Although my institution allows me to create a website on Wordpress and host it on the university's server free of charge, I chose to build it using Jekyll instead. Why? Because steep learning curves are so much more fun!
Regardless, it's quite rewarding to write your own code and navigate the world of gems. The convenience of Wordpress is definitely more appealing, but there's less of a creative feel to it. The other reason that might be a deciding factor for most people is the free hosting on Github. I also love the minimalist look of the website, courtesy of the fantastic **[theme](https://github.com/fongandrew/hydeout)** I'm using.

I've followed two fantastic tutorials to get the site up and running (because I am by no means an expert)
- The tutorial by **[GiraffeAcademy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T1itpPvFWHI&list=PLLAZ4kZ9dFpOPV5C5Ay0pHaa0RJFhcmcB)** on YouTube.
- An excellent introduction to the prerequisites by **[Arya Murali](https://medium.com/20percentwork/creating-your-blog-for-free-using-jekyll-github-pages-dba37272730a)** on Medium

Before you can start building your site locally, you need to install Ruby and Jekyll. To edit the site files, I use Visual Studio Code, which is a free source-code editor by Microsoft with support for debugging, code completion capability and embedded Git among others (the 2nd reference listed above will guide you through all the installations). 

Once you've built your site locally, you upload it on github by creating a new repo. And your personal site will be up and running! But issues will always arise, requiring bug fixes and you may want to tweak a few things here and there depending on your preferences. The theme documentation and the Jekyll site are two of the most significant resources that'll guide you. If scouring those do not solve a problem, head to StackOverflow. Like I said, I'm learning as I'm going but it is a project well worth the time invested. 

